docs/object-store-creation-and-configuration.md, before:

# Object Store
You will need object storage created and configured for use by these capabilities in the bundle. Below are example `uds-config.yaml` object store entries. Your object store needs to conform to what you place in these entries at deploy time. You will also see the buckets that need to exist for these capabilities.

## Gitlab
You will need these buckets created in your object store. If you choose to configure bucket names to use a suffix, your bucket names will need to contain that suffix.

### buckets
- uds-gitlab-artifacts
- uds-gitlab-backups
- uds-gitlab-ci-secure-files
- uds-gitlab-dependency-proxy
- uds-gitlab-lfs
- uds-gitlab-mr-diffs
- uds-gitlab-packages
- uds-gitlab-pages
- uds-gitlab-terraform-state
- uds-gitlab-uploads
- uds-gitlab-registry
- uds-gitlab-tmp

### config

```yaml
bundle:
  deploy:
    zarf-packages:
      gitlab-object-store:
        set:
          ENDPOINT: "http://swf.objects.mtsi.bigbang.dev" # Replace with domain entry for you object store
          ACCESS_KEY: "replace-me-object-store-access-key" # Replace with access key to your object store
          SECRET_KEY: "replace-me-object-store-secret-key" # Replace with secret key to your object store
      gitlab:
        set:
          BUCKET_SUFFIX: "" # You can choose to add a suffix to the end of every bucket name if desired or needed.
```

## Mattermost
You will need this bucket created in your object store. If you choose to configure bucket names to use a suffix, your bucket names will need to contain that suffix.

### buckets
- mattermost-bucket

### config

```yaml
bundle:
  deploy:
    zarf-packages:
      mattermost-object-store:
        set:
          ACCESS_KEY: "replace-me-object-store-access-key" # Replace with access key to your object store
          SECRET_KEY: "replace-me-object-store-secret-key" # Replace with secret key to your object store
          # Replace CA_CERT with your object store cert that you need to trust
          CA_CERT: |
            -----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----
            replace-me-ca-cert-to-trust
            -----END CERTIFICATE-----
      mattermost:
        set:
          MATTERMOST_BUCKET_SUFFIX: "" # You can choose to add a suffix to the end of every bucket name if desired or needed.
          MATTERMOST_FILE_STORE_ENDPOINT: "swf.objects.mtsi.bigbang.dev" # Replace with domain entry for you object store
          # Volume used to mount the CA_CERT you need to trust from your object store
          MATTERMOST_VOLUMES: |
            - name: ca-cert
              secret:
                secretName: ca-secret
                defaultMode: 0644
          # Volume mount used to mount the CA_CERT you need to trust from your object store
          MATTERMOST_VOLUME_MOUNTS: |
            - name: ca-cert
              mountPath: /etc/ssl/certs
              readOnly: true
```

Commit message:

Upgrade DUBBD and configure Velero (#19)

docs/object-store-creation-and-configuration.md, after:

# Object Store
You will need object storage created and configured for use by these capabilities in the bundle. Below are example `uds-config.yaml` object store entries. Your object store needs to conform to what you place in these entries at deploy time. You will also see the buckets that need to exist for these capabilities.

## Velero
You will to create and configure the bucket you are going to use for Velero

### config
```yaml
bundle:
  deploy:
    zarf-packages:
      dubbd-rke2:
        set:
          VELERO_BUCKET_PROVIDER_URL: "http://swf.objects.mtsi.bigbang.dev" # Replace with domain entry for your object store
          VELERO_BUCKET: "velero-bucket" # Configure the appropriate name of your bucket
          VELERO_BUCKET_REGION: "us-east-1" # Replace with appropriate region. Nutanix expects this to be us-east-1
          VELERO_BUCKET_KEY: "replace-me-object-store-access-key" # Replace with access key to your object store
          VELERO_BUCKET_KEY_SECRET: "replace-me-object-store-secret-key" # Replace with secret key to your object store
```

## Gitlab
You will need these buckets created in your object store. If you choose to configure bucket names to use a suffix, your bucket names will need to contain that suffix.

### buckets
- uds-gitlab-artifacts
- uds-gitlab-backups
- uds-gitlab-ci-secure-files
- uds-gitlab-dependency-proxy
- uds-gitlab-lfs
- uds-gitlab-mr-diffs
- uds-gitlab-packages
- uds-gitlab-pages
- uds-gitlab-terraform-state
- uds-gitlab-uploads
- uds-gitlab-registry
- uds-gitlab-tmp

### config

```yaml
bundle:
  deploy:
    zarf-packages:
      gitlab-object-store:
        set:
          ENDPOINT: "http://swf.objects.mtsi.bigbang.dev" # Replace with domain entry for you object store
          ACCESS_KEY: "replace-me-object-store-access-key" # Replace with access key to your object store
          SECRET_KEY: "replace-me-object-store-secret-key" # Replace with secret key to your object store
      gitlab:
        set:
          BUCKET_SUFFIX: "" # You can choose to add a suffix to the end of every bucket name if desired or needed.
```

## Mattermost
You will need this bucket created in your object store. If you choose to configure bucket names to use a suffix, your bucket names will need to contain that suffix.

### buckets
- mattermost-bucket

### config

```yaml
bundle:
  deploy:
    zarf-packages:
      mattermost-object-store:
        set:
          ACCESS_KEY: "replace-me-object-store-access-key" # Replace with access key to your object store
          SECRET_KEY: "replace-me-object-store-secret-key" # Replace with secret key to your object store
          # Replace CA_CERT with your object store cert that you need to trust
          CA_CERT: |
            -----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----
            replace-me-ca-cert-to-trust
            -----END CERTIFICATE-----
      mattermost:
        set:
          MATTERMOST_BUCKET_SUFFIX: "" # You can choose to add a suffix to the end of every bucket name if desired or needed.
          MATTERMOST_FILE_STORE_ENDPOINT: "swf.objects.mtsi.bigbang.dev" # Replace with domain entry for you object store
          # Volume used to mount the CA_CERT you need to trust from your object store
          MATTERMOST_VOLUMES: |
            - name: ca-cert
              secret:
                secretName: ca-secret
                defaultMode: 0644
          # Volume mount used to mount the CA_CERT you need to trust from your object store
          MATTERMOST_VOLUME_MOUNTS: |
            - name: ca-cert
              mountPath: /etc/ssl/certs
              readOnly: true
```
